# Create Seeders

## Introduction
Laravel includes the ability to seed your database with data using seed classes. All seed classes are stored in the <code>database/seeders</code> directory. By default, a <code>DatabaseSeeder</code> class is defined for you. From this class, you may use the call method to run other seed classes, allowing you to control the seeding order.

## Generate Seeder Classes
To generate a seeder, execute the <code>make:seeder</code> command. All seeders generated by the framework will be placed in the <code>database/seeders</code> directory:
``` shell
php artisan make:seeder ModelSeeder
```
### Seeder Name Guidelines
1. Seeder names should be in Pascal Case
2. Seeder names should be in singular form
3. Seeder names should be in <code>"ModelName" + "Seeder"</code> format

Examples can be: <code>DriverSeeder</code>, <code>ScheduleSeeder</code>, <code>TrainingRoomSeeder</code>

## Specify Data to Insert
A seeder class only contains one method by default: <code>run()</code>. This method is called when the <code>db:seed</code> command is executed. Within the <code>run()</code> method, you may insert data into your database however you wish:
```php
<?php
 
namespace App\Models;
 
use Illuminate\Database\Eloquent\Model;
use App\Models\Driver;
 
class DriverSeeder extends Model
{
    /**
     * Run the database seeders.
     *
     * @return void
     */
    public function run()
    {
        Driver::query()->create([
            'name' => 'John Doe',
        ]);
    }
}
```

## Register Seeders
Within the <code>DatabaseSeeder</code> class, you may use the <code>call()</code> method to execute additional seed classes. Using the <code>call()</code> method allows you to break up your database seeding into multiple files so that no single seeder class becomes too large. The call method accepts an array of seeder classes that should be executed:
```php
<?php

namespace Database\Seeders;

use Illuminate\Database\Seeder;

class DatabaseSeeder extends Seeder
{
    /**
     * Seed the application's database.
     *
     * @return void
     */
    public function run()
    {
        $this->call([
            DriverSeeder::class,
            UserSeeder::class,
            TrainingRoomSeeder::class,
        ]);
    }
}
```
## Running Seeders
We can run our created seeders using the <code>migrate:fresh</code> command in combination with the <code>--seed</code> option, which will drop all tables and re-run all migrations. This command is useful for completely re-building database.
``` shell
php artisan migrate:fresh --seed
```
